https://identitymanagementinstitute.org/iam-engineer-job-description/

<h1>Stellenbeschreibung für den IAM-Ingenieur</h1>

Diese Stellenbeschreibung für einen IAM-Ingenieur wurde vom Identity Management Institute erstellt, um die Rolle eines Identity- und Access-Management-Ingenieurs zu beschreiben, der Frameworks, Systeme und Protokolle für Identity- und Access-Management entwerfen, entwickeln, testen, implementieren und integrieren kann.
Der Identity- und Access-Management-Ingenieur ist in der Regel für die Entwicklung und Implementierung von IAM-Systemen einschließlich SSO, Authentifizierung und Zugriffskontrollen verantwortlich, um die Vertraulichkeit, Integrität und Verfügbarkeit von IAM-Systemen und -Daten sicherzustellen.

Insgesamt ist der IAM-Ingenieur dafür verantwortlich, dass beschaffte oder entwickelte IAM-Systeme ordnungsgemäß implementiert werden und wie vorgesehen funktionieren.

<h1>IAM Engineer Job Description<</h1>

Interested applicants for the identity and access management engineer position must typically meet the following requirements set forth in an IAM engineer job description:
o Bachelor’s degree in IT, information security, computer science, or a related field.
o 3 to 5 years of experience.
  Alternatively, candidate may possess an equivalent combination of relevant professional experience and education.
o Comprehensive knowledge and experience with authentication standards and technologies such as multi factor authentication, JSON Web Token (JWT), etc.
o Extensive hands-on knowledge of identity and access management best practices, procedures, and software solutions such as CyberArk, ForgeRock, Okta, Ping Identity, etc.
o Extensive knowledge and experience with identity and access management technology, such as single sign-on (SSO), two-factor authentication, privileged access management, etc.
o Experience with one or more programming languages such as C++, Java, Python, Javascript, or C#
o Experience with Windows, Lunix / Unix, scripting (Bash, Powershell, or Perl), LDAP, SQL, and web services.

<h1>IAM Engineer Job Duties</h1>

Typical day to day duties of the IAM Engineer role may include:

o Develop, implement, and maintain identity and access management solutions and systems.
o Troubleshoot, identify, and resolve technical identity and access management related issues.
o Improve identity and access management solutions and systems for protection against evolving threats and efficiency.
o Coach other members of the organization on the best practices that should be followed in identity and access management.
o Stay up-to-date on current IAM threats and industry solutions.

Comparing the IAM Engineer Job Description

A few other professional roles in identity and access management include:

IAM Analyst Role

The identity and access management analyst role is an entry-level position that supports IAM initiatives with gathering identity and access management requirements, review of configurations and system settings, documenting standards and procedures, and helping manage various identity and access management tasks.

IAM Manager Role

The IAM Manager position is a senior level position in charge of critical business decisions.
The role of an identity and access manager is to assess an organization’s existing identity and access management capabilities, workflow, systems, and processes to transform the identity lifecycle and make improvements based on business goals and objectives while reducing costs for the organization.
The most suitable IAM certification for an IAM Manager role is the Certified Identity and Access Manager (CIAM).